public/articles/collecting-rocks.md, before:

---
title: 'Collecting Rocks'
dateCreated: 'Jan 30, 2025'
# summary: 'Turn your browser window into a 2D canvas that you can explore'
# coverImg: '/img/articles/zooming-scaling/window-drawing.webp'
hidden: false
categories: 'life'
---

**Life is about collecting rocks.** Some rocks have meaning—they come from special places, are smooth, pretty, well-shaped, and bring us joy. Others are rough, cumbersome, and best left behind. Their size and weight vary, and each can either anchor us or propel us forward.

We carry these rocks for a reason. For better or worse, we lug them along because they are all we have. They define us and tell the story of a unique life filled with perspectives and experiences. Occasionally, we need a reminder of where we’ve been and who we are, so we look at our collection and admire it. Yet, as we all know, it's easy to forget that we even have a collection, so it’s best to practice reflecting on it often.

Over the years, our collection grows heavier, but it can only grow so large. At some point, we must lay our rocks out and decide which ones to keep. The lightest and most appealing should remain with us, as they bring joy and fond memories. Some rocks may have lost their luster but still hold meaning—we must decide if they are truly worthy of a spot in our collection. The rest must be left behind, either abandoned where they lie or thrown far, far away.

The heavy rocks made us stronger, the beautiful ones made us happier, the rough ones sharpened us, and the ones that traveled far did so because we, too, traveled far. All we can hope for is that, when we are old, we can pull out our collection of rocks, dust them off, and smile—reminded of a life fully lived.

Commit message:

add article: collecting rocks summary

public/articles/collecting-rocks.md, after:

---
title: 'Collecting Rocks'
dateCreated: 'Jan 30, 2025'
summary: 'Choosing which rocks to collect and carry shapes the life we live'
hidden: false
categories: 'life'
---

**Life is about collecting rocks.** Some rocks have meaning—they come from special places, are smooth, pretty, well-shaped, and bring us joy. Others are rough, cumbersome, and best left behind. Their size and weight vary, and each can either anchor us or propel us forward.

We carry these rocks for a reason. For better or worse, we lug them along because they are all we have. They define us and tell the story of a unique life filled with perspectives and experiences. Occasionally, we need a reminder of where we’ve been and who we are, so we look at our collection and admire it. Yet, as we all know, it's easy to forget that we even have a collection, so it’s best to practice reflecting on it often.

Over the years, our collection grows heavier, but it can only grow so large. At some point, we must lay our rocks out and decide which ones to keep. The lightest and most appealing should remain with us, as they bring joy and fond memories. Some rocks may have lost their luster but still hold meaning—we must decide if they are truly worthy of a spot in our collection. The rest must be left behind, either abandoned where they lie or thrown far, far away.

The heavy rocks made us stronger, the beautiful ones made us happier, the rough ones sharpened us, and the ones that traveled far did so because we, too, traveled far. All we can hope for is that, when we are old, we can pull out our collection of rocks, dust them off, and smile—reminded of a life fully lived.
